###############################################################################
Cosmic View of Life on Earth: Documentation
###############################################################################


Overview
===============================================================================

Cosmic View of Life on Earth is a project that aspires to remap the animal kingdom by solely using DNA samples to inform how species are related. This novel, "pure data" approach can then be compared to the century-plus work in the cladistic realm. This work will likely confirm the cladistic approach, but in some cases may uncover meaningful differences between the qualitative cladistic approach and the quantitative DNA data analysis.

Our process includes several fundamental steps:

#. harvest the DNA samples,

#. perform dimensionality reduction on those samples so we can examine them in three dimensions,

#. develop tools to analyze these data, and

#. visualize these data and their metadata (data qualities, images, sounds, etc.) in the OpenSpace software to understand these relationships and derive stories that are publicly accessible.

The result will be a new, three-dimensional interpretation of what is traditionally a two-dimensional, diagrammatic, cladistics-informed tree of life.


Documentation
===============================================================================

This documentation is designed to describe the processing steps toward generating the final files necessary for OpenSpace. We assume the presense of input catalogs, mostly generated by team members Wandrille Duchemin and Takanori Fujiwara. We process those "raw" data into its final form needed for OpenSpace.


Contents
===============================================================================
.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    main
    colors
    human_origins
    metadata
    consensus_species
    sequence
    sequence_lineage
    slice_by_clade
    slice_by_lineage
    slice_by_taxon
    common




Team Members
===============================================================================


`Jackie Faherty <https://www.jackiefaherty.com/>`_
    PI, Astrophysicist & Educator, American Museum of Natural History
`Brian Abbott <https://www.brianabbott.com/>`_
    Astronomer & Science Visualization, American Museum of Natural History

David Thaler
    Microbiologist, Biozentrum at the University of Basel & Rockefeller University

`Wandrille Duchemin <https://github.com/WandrilleD>`_
    Bioinformaticist, Center for Scientific Computing (sciCORE) at the University of Basel

`Takanori Fujiwara <https://takanori-fujiwara.github.io/>`_
    Data reduction and visualization, Linköping University

`Emma Broman <https://scivis.github.io/alumni/emmbr26/>`_
    Software Engineer & Visualization, Linköping University

`Elias Elmquist <https://liu.se/en/employee/eliel49>`_
    Graduate Student, Sonification, Linköping University

`Will Harcourt-Smith <https://www.gc.cuny.edu/people/william-harcourt-smith>`_
    Anthropologist, American Museum of Natural History & City University of New York

`Perrin Meyer <https://www.lizardinthesun.com/#psm>`_
    Researcher computational acoustics, Meyer Sound

Hollister Herhold
    Entomologist, American Museum of Natural History








.. Indices and tables
.. ==================

.. * :ref:`genindex`
.. * :ref:`modindex`
.. * :ref:`search`
